Update star-tree-index.md (#9163)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _search-plugins/star-tree-index.md

Star-tree indexes have the following limitations:

> - A star-tree index should only be enabled on indexes whose data is not updated or deleted because updates and deletions are not accounted for in a star-tree index. This is enforced by `index.append_only.enabled` index setting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A star-tree index should only be enabled on indexes whose data is not updated or deleted because updates and deletions are not accounted for in a star-tree index. To enforce this policy and use star-tree indexes, set the `index.append_only.enabled` setting to true.
```

### Supported queries

> The following queries are supported as of OpenSearch 2.19:

Reviewer 2: Are we capturing the difference in data types supported by indexing v/s search ? 
For instance, Unsigned Long is supported in Indexing but not in Search. 
Similarly, for IP field as well.

Author: I thought about it, but we did not mention about this in OS 2.18 when only numeric fields were supported in Search. But feel free to suggest how we can capture this information.

Reviewer 3: For now we can leave out fields types supported in documentation which are not supported in search. https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/field-types/supported-field-types/star-tree/#ordered-dimensions

```
Currently, fields supported by the ordered_dimensions parameter are all [numeric field types](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/field-types/supported-field-types/numeric/), with the exception of unsigned_long. For more information, see [GitHub issue #15231](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/15231).
Support for other field types, such as keyword and ip, will be added in future versions. For more information, see [GitHub issue #16232](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/16232).
```
Is what we currently have, I haven't added date dimension etc to the documentation.

Author: Since we already have date dimension supported, it makes sense to actually include them in the example and documentation.

Reviewer 2: Date dimension is not supported for query filters ( term/terms/range ) used in aggregation. 
The current documentation might confuse users since it's supported as a field to aggregate upon but not supported as a field to filter upon. 
We can explicitly mention the same.

Author: done.

- [Term query]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/query-dsl/term/term/)
- [Terms query]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/query-dsl/term/terms/)
- [Match all docs query]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/query-dsl/match-all/)

> - [Range query]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/query-dsl/term/range/)

Reviewer 2: We don't support `queryRelation` as it mostly used for Date OR [NumericRange field types](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/field-types/supported-field-types/range/)  

We can capture the same here.

Reviewer: @sandeshkr419: Has this comment been addressed?

Author: Unsupported `queryRelation` operation is applicable only on `range` type fields which we do not support via star-tree hence we do not need to include this detail.

### Supported queries

The following queries are supported as of OpenSearch 2.19:

- [Term query]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/query-dsl/term/term/)
- [Terms query]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/query-dsl/term/terms/)
- [Match all docs query]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/query-dsl/match-all/)
- [Range query]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/query-dsl/term/range/)

> To use a query in supported aggregations with a star-tree index, the query's fields must be present in the `ordered_dimensions` section of the star-tree configuration. Queries without aggregations are not supported, they must be paired with a supported aggregation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use a query with a star-tree index, the query's fields must be present in the `ordered_dimensions` section of the star-tree configuration.  Also, queries must be paired with a supported aggregation. Queries without aggregations cannot be used with a star-tree index.
```

### Supported aggregations

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The following aggregations are supported by star-tree indexes.

```

- [Value count]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/aggregations/metric/value-count/)
- [Average]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/aggregations/metric/average/)

> To use aggregations searchable via star-tree:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use searchable aggregations with a star tree index, remember the following prerequisites:
```

- [Value count]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/aggregations/metric/value-count/)
- [Average]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/aggregations/metric/average/)

> To use searchable aggregations with a star tree index, remember the following prerequisites:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To use searchable aggregations with a star-tree index, make sure you fulfill the following prerequisites:
```

- The fields must be present in the `metrics` section of the star-tree configuration.
- The metric aggregation type must be part of the `stats` parameter.

> ##### Example

Reviewer 4: @Naarcha-AWS Would we normally use an L5 heading?

Reviewer: Not typically. I'll go ahead and remove the header.

Reviewer 4: Why not just have it be an L4?

Reviewer: The example is related to metric aggregations specifically. Not having an L4 simplifies the formatting. Furthermore, line 202 should be an L4 since its intended as a subsection "Supported aggregations".

Using a star-tree index, the result will be retrieved from a single aggregated document as it traverses the `status=500` node, as opposed to scanning through all of the matching documents. This results in lower query latency.

#### Date Histogram Aggregation with Metric Aggregations

[Date Histogram]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/aggregations/bucket/date-histogram/) on calendar intervals with above metric sub-aggregations is supported as of OpenSearch 2.19. 

To use date histogram aggregations searchable via star-tree:

- The calendar intervals in star-tree mapping configuration should have either the request calendar field or a lower granularity calendar field. For example, `month` can be resolved by star-tree from `day` field as well if present in star-tree mapping.
- Metric sub-aggregation must be part of the aggregation request.

##### Example

The following example gets the sum of all the values in the `size` field aggregated for each calendar month, for all error logs with `status=500`.

```json
POST /logs/_search
{
  "query": {
    "term": {

>       "status": "500"

Reviewer 3: Can we use range query or keyword term query since term is already used in the above example ? Maybe keyword term query will be a good example.

Reviewer: @bharath-techie: I'll update the example to use a range query.

To use date histogram aggregations and make them searchable in a star-tree index, remember the following requirements:

- The calendar intervals in a star-tree mapping configuration can use either the request's calendar field or a field of lower granularity than the request field. For example, if an aggregation uses the `month` field, the star-tree search can still use lower-granularity fields such as `day`.
- A metric sub-aggregation must be part of the aggregation request.

The following example gets the sum of all the values in the `size` field with a range query, aggregated for each calendar month, for all error logs containing `method:get`:

```json
POST /logs/_search
{
{
  "query": {
    "range": {
      "created": {
        "gte": "2019/01/01",
        "lte": "2019/12/31"
      },
    "method": {
      "status": "get"
    }
  },
  "size": 0,
  "aggs": {
    "by_hour": {
      "date_histogram": {
        "field": "@timestamp",
        "calendar_interval": "month"
      },
      "aggs": {
        "sum_size": {
          "sum": {
            "field": "size"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> {% include copy.html %}

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
{% include copy-curl.html %}
```

Using a star-tree index, the result will be retrieved from a single aggregated document as it traverses the `status=500` node, as opposed to scanning through all of the matching documents. This results in lower query latency.

### Date histogram with metric aggregations

You can use [date histograms]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/aggregations/bucket/date-histogram/) on calendar intervals with metric sub-aggregations.

To use date histogram aggregations and make then searchable in the star-tree index, use the following steps:

> - The calendar intervals in star-tree mapping configuration should have either the request calendar field or a lower granularity calendar field. For example, `month` can be resolved by the star-tree from `day` field as well if present in star-tree mapping.

Reviewer: I don't understand this interval example. Are we saying `month` and `day` can be used in the same calendar interval and both be searchable from the star-tree?

```suggestion
- The calendar intervals in star-tree mapping configuration should have either the request calendar field or a lower granularity calendar field. For example, `month` can be resolved by the star-tree from `day` field as well if present in star-tree mapping.
```

Author: Basically we are saying that for example, star-tree mapping has `minute` & `day` as indexed timestamp fields. So calculating `minute` and `day` aggregation from star-tree will be a trivial supported case. What the example emphasizes that even `month` or `year` aggregation can be supported by sta-tree search by making use of lower granularity intervals like `day` in this case. Similarly if `hour` aggregation is asked, it can make use of `minute` field in star-tree to compute that. But let's say second granularity is asked, it will not use star-tree as `second` or a lower granularity is not present and the search code flow will default to default non-star-tree approach.

Using a star-tree index, the result will be retrieved from a single aggregated document as it traverses the `status=500` node, as opposed to scanning through all of the matching documents. This results in lower query latency.

> #### Date histogram with metric aggregations

Reviewer 4: Should "histogram" not be plural here? It's plural in the following sentence.

Using a star-tree index, the result will be retrieved from a single aggregated document as it traverses the `status=500` node, as opposed to scanning through all of the matching documents. This results in lower query latency.

### Date histogram with metric aggregations

You can use [date histograms]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/aggregations/bucket/date-histogram/) on calendar intervals with metric sub-aggregations.

To use date histogram aggregations and make then searchable in the star-tree index, use the following steps:

- The calendar intervals in a star-tree mapping configuration can have either the request's calendar field or a field of lower granularity than the request field. For example, if an aggregation uses the `month` field, the star-tree search can still use lower granularity fields such as `day`.
- A metric sub-aggregation must be part of the aggregation request.

#### Example

The following example gets the sum of all the values in the `size` field aggregated for each calendar month, for all error logs with `method:get`:

```json
POST /logs/_search
{

>   "query": {

Reviewer 3: Is this a valid query ? @sandeshkr419 just double checking. I don't see term/terms etc

Reviewer: @bharath-techie: I updated the query to add terms while keeping the method.

Reviewer 3: This is still not a valid query , we don't support range on timestamp. Lets reword this @Naarcha-AWS

Reviewer: @bharath-techie: Can you suggest a valid query?

Reviewer 3: ```
{
    "size": 0,
    "query": {
        "range": {
            "status": {
                "gte": "200",
                "lte": "400"
            }
        }
    },
    "aggs": {
        "by_hour": {
            "date_histogram": {
                "field": "@timestamp",
                "calendar_interval": "month"
            },
            "aggs": {
                "sum_size": {
                    "sum": {
                        "field": "size"
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

This is a valid query which we can use @Naarcha-AWS

Using a star-tree index, the result will be retrieved from a single aggregated document as it traverses the `status=500` node, as opposed to scanning through all of the matching documents. This results in lower query latency.

### Date histogram with metric aggregations

You can use [date histograms]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/aggregations/bucket/date-histogram/) on calendar intervals with metric sub-aggregations.

To use date histogram aggregations and make then searchable in the star-tree index, use the following steps:

> 

Reviewer 4: @Naarcha-AWS The following do not appear to be steps showing the user how to use date histogram aggregations.

Reviewer: Changed to "requirements".

> - The calendar intervals in a star-tree mapping configuration can have either the request's calendar field or a field of lower granularity than the request field. For example, if an aggregation uses the `month` field, the star-tree search can still use lower granularity fields such as `day`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- The calendar intervals in a star-tree mapping configuration can use either the request's calendar field or a field of lower granularity than the request field. For example, if an aggregation uses the `month` field, the star-tree search can still use lower-granularity fields such as `day`.
```

- A metric sub-aggregation must be part of the aggregation request.

#### Example

The following example gets the sum of all the values in the `size` field aggregated for each calendar month, for all error logs with `method:get`:

```json
POST /logs/_search
{
{
  "query": {
    "term": {
      "status": "500"
    },
    "method": {
      "status": "get"
    }
  },
  "size": 0,
  "aggs": {
    "by_hour": {
      "date_histogram": {
        "field": "@timestamp",
        "calendar_interval": "month"
      },
      "aggs": {
        "sum_size": {
          "sum": {
            "field": "size"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> 

Reviewer 4: Should there be copy/copy cURL buttons here?
